Why do we use DevOps ?
DevOps is used to streamline and improve collaboration between software development(Dev) and IT operations (Ops) teams.
It focuses on automating releases, improving efficeincy, ensuring faster and more reliable releases.
- DevOps automates many steps in software development and deployment process allowing teams to release updates more quickly and frequently.
- Automation and continous testing in devops catch errors easily and improves the quality of software.

DevOps tools - docker, kubernetes, ansible, github, jenkins.

Continuous Integration (CI): A DevOps practice where developers frequently merge their code changes into a central repository,
followed by automated builds and tests to detect issues early, ensuring that the integrated code is always in a functional state.


Continuous Deployment (CD): An extension of Continuous Delivery where code changes are automatically 
deployed to production after passing all automated tests, without any manual intervention.

Azure Pipelines is a service that helps in automating the build and deployment processes. 
It supports continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) to build, test, and deploy code to any platform, ensuring faster and more reliable software releases.

Azure Boards is a tool within Microsoft's Azure DevOps platform that helps teams plan, track, and manage work across software projects. 
- visualize project health, tracking bugs, supports for sprint planning, tracking progress, proirtising important lists.

Pull Request - it is a method where Team members can then review the code, suggest changes, and approve the changes before they are merged into the main codebase.

Phases involved in devops:
1. Plan
2. Develop
3. build
4. test
5. integrate 
6. deploy
7. operate
8. monitor


Azure Boards: It plans and tracks work items.
Azure Repos: It manages source code using version control.
Azure Pipelines: It builds, test, and deploy code.


Why prefer devops over traditional software development.
- Devops automates many manual processes,allowing quicker software release and updates compared to,  traditional methods which often has long, rigid releases.
- Devops practices like ci and cd allow for automating testing, feedback and improvement where as traditional method often wait till development for testing and feedback.


We use Azure repos, to track changes for the code, facilitate coordination between teams and collaborate on changes for future use.

A Git repository stores a project's files and keeps a record of all the changes made to those files over time.
It helps track changes, so you can see who made what changes and when, making it easier to manage different versions of the project.

Git status command displays the current state of the repository in Git. 
It provides information about which files have been modified, which are staged for the next commit, and which are untracked
